doc: update module customization hooks docs (#49265)
nodejs/node: doc/api/module.md

validating the import assertion.

The final value of `format` must be one of the following:

| `format`     | Description                    | Acceptable types for `source` returned by `load`                           |
| ------------ | ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `'builtin'`  | Load a Node.js builtin module  | Not applicable                                                             |
| `'commonjs'` | Load a Node.js CommonJS module | { [`string`][], [`ArrayBuffer`][], [`TypedArray`][], `null`, `undefined` } |
| `'json'`     | Load a JSON file               | { [`string`][], [`ArrayBuffer`][], [`TypedArray`][] }                      |
| `'module'`   | Load an ES module              | { [`string`][], [`ArrayBuffer`][], [`TypedArray`][] }                      |
| `'wasm'`     | Load a WebAssembly module      | { [`ArrayBuffer`][], [`TypedArray`][] }                                    |

The value of `source` is ignored for type `'builtin'` because currently it is
not possible to replace the value of a Node.js builtin (core) module.

> The value of `source` can be omitted for type `'commonjs'`. When a `source` is
> provided, all `require` calls from this module will be processed by the ESM
> loader with registered `resolve` and `load` hooks; all `require.resolve` calls
> from this module will be processed by the ESM loader with registered `resolve`
> hooks; `require.extensions` and monkey-patching on the CommonJS module loader
> will not apply. (In other words, handled `require` calls will behave similarly
> to an `import` of a CommonJS module, other than `require` being sync.) If
> `source` is undefined or `null`, it will be handled by the CommonJS module
> loader and `require`/`require.resolve` calls will not go through the registered
> hooks. This behavior for nullish `source` is temporary — in the future, nullish
> `source` will not be supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value of `source` can be omitted for type `'commonjs'`:

- When a `source` is provided, all `require` calls from this module will be
  processed by the ESM loader with registered `resolve` and `load` hooks; all
  `require.resolve` calls from this module will be processed by the ESM loader
  with registered `resolve` hooks; only a subset of the CommonJS API will be
  available (e.g. no `require.extensions`, no `require.cache`, no
  `require.resolve.paths`) and monkey-patching on the CommonJS module loader
  will not apply.
- If `source` is undefined or `null`, it will be handled by the CommonJS module
  loader and `require`/`require.resolve` calls will not go through the
  registered hooks. This behavior for nullish `source` is temporary — in the
  future, nullish `source` will not be supported.
```

register('http-to-https', pathToFileURL(__filename));

// Because this is a dynamic `import()`, the `http-to-https` hooks will run
// to handle `./my-app.js` and any other files it imports or requires.
import('./my-app.js');
```

In this example, we are registering the `http-to-https` hooks, but they will
only be available for subsequently imported modules—in this case, `my-app.js`
and anything it references via `import` or `require`. If the
`import('./my-app.js')` had instead been a static `import './my-app.js'`, _the
app would already have been loaded_ before the `http-to-https` hooks were
registered. This is part of the design of ES modules, where static imports are
evaluated from the leaves of the tree first back to the trunk. There can be
static imports _within_ `my-app.js`, which will not be evaluated until
`my-app.js` is when it's dynamically imported.

The `my-app.js` file can also be CommonJS. Customization hooks will run for any
modules that it references via either `import` or `require`.

Finally, if all you want to do is register hooks before your app runs and you
don't want to create a separate file for that purpose, you can pass a `data:`
URL to `--import`:

```bash

> node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; register("http-to-https", import.meta.url);' ./my-app.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { fileToPathURL } from "node:url"; register("http-to-https", fileToPathURL('./'));' ./my-app.js
```

functionality, there are substantial downsides to actually using these hooks:
performance is much slower than loading files from disk, there is no caching,
and there is no security.

```mjs
// https-hooks.mjs
import { get } from 'node:https';

export function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
  // For JavaScript to be loaded over the network, we need to fetch and
  // return it.
  if (url.startsWith('https://')) {
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
      get(url, (res) => {
        let data = '';
        res.setEncoding('utf8');
        res.on('data', (chunk) => data += chunk);
        res.on('end', () => resolve({
          // This example assumes all network-provided JavaScript is ES module
          // code.
          format: 'module',
          shortCircuit: true,
          source: data,
        }));
      }).on('error', (err) => reject(err));
    });
  }

  // Let Node.js handle all other URLs.
  return nextLoad(url);
}
```

```mjs
// main.mjs
import { VERSION } from 'https://coffeescript.org/browser-compiler-modern/coffeescript.js';

console.log(VERSION);
```

With the preceding hooks module, running

> `node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; register("./https-hooks.mjs", import.meta.url);' ./main.mjs`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { fileToPathURL } from "node:url"; register(fileToPathURL("./https-hooks.mjs"));' ./main.js`
```

causes `main.coffee` to be turned into JavaScript after its source code is
loaded from disk but before Node.js executes it; and so on for any `.coffee`,
`.litcoffee` or `.coffee.md` files referenced via `import` statements of any
loaded file.

#### Import maps

The previous two examples defined `load` hooks. This is an example of a
`resolve` hook. This hooks module reads an `import-map.json` file that defines
which specifiers to override to other URLs (this is a very simplistic
implementation of a small subset of the "import maps" specification).

```mjs
// import-map-loader.js
import fs from 'node:fs/promises';

const { imports } = JSON.parse(await fs.readFile('import-map.json'));

export async function resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) {
  if (Object.hasOwn(imports, specifier)) {
    return nextResolve(imports[specifier], context);
  }

  return nextResolve(specifier, context);
}
```

With these files:

```mjs
// main.js
import 'a-module';
```

```json
// import-map.json
{
  "imports": {
    "a-module": "./some-module.js"
  }
}
```

```mjs
// some-module.js
console.log('some module!');
```

> Running `node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; register("./import-map-loader.js", import.meta.url);' ./import-map-loader.js main.js`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running `node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { fileToPathURL } from "node:url"; register(fileToPathURL("./import-map-loader.mjs"));' ./main.js`
```

* Returns: {any} returns whatever was returned by the `initialize` hook.

> Register a module that exports [hooks][] that customize Node.js module

Author: Saying “exporting” here is unclear if you’re modifying “module” or “register a module”; as in, the “exporting” could be happening as a result of the registration. I think the existing text is clearer.

                 `globalPreload`; added `load` hook and `getGlobalPreload` hook.
-->

> Stability: 1.1 - Active development

<!-- type=misc -->

<i id="enabling_module_customization_hooks"></i>

### Enabling

Module resolution and loading can be customized by registering a file which
exports a set of hooks. This can be done using the [`register`][] method
imported from `node:module`, which you can run before your application code by
using the `--import` flag:

```bash
node --import ./register-hooks.js ./my-app.js
```

```mjs
// register-hooks.js
import { register } from 'node:module';

register('./hooks.mjs', import.meta.url);
```

```cjs
// register-hooks.js
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');

register('./hooks.mjs', pathToFileURL(__filename));
```

The file passed to `--import` can also be an export from a dependency:

```bash
node --import some-package/register ./my-app.js
```

Where `some-package` has an `"exports"` field defining the `/register` export to

> map to a file that calls `register()`, like this `register-hooks.js` example.

Reviewer: I think we should either link to the `"exports"` documentation, or not mention it at all considering folks already know – and realistically, they will just copy the command from `some-package` README, so they don't have to care about exports map or this kind of stuff.

Author: I'm fine with not mentioning it, but will people be confused?

modules that it references via either `import` or `require`.

Finally, if all you want to do is register hooks before your app runs and you
don't want to create a separate file for that purpose, you can pass a `data:`
URL to `--import`:

```bash
node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register("http-to-https", pathToFileURL("./").href);' ./my-app.js
```

### Chaining

It's possible to call `register` more than once:

```mjs
// entrypoint.mjs
import { register } from 'node:module';

register(new URL('./first.mjs', import.meta.url));
register('./second.mjs', import.meta.url);
await import('./my-app.mjs');
```

```cjs
// entrypoint.cjs
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');

const parentURL = pathToFileURL(__filename);
register(new URL('./first.mjs', parentURL));
register('./second.mjs', parentURL);
import('./my-app.mjs');
```

In this example, the registered hooks will form chains. If both `first.mjs` and
`second.mjs` define a `resolve` hook, both will be called, in the order they
were registered. The same applies to all the other hooks.

> ### Communication between main and hooks threads

Reviewer: Should we keep calling it the loader thread?

Author: I don't think so. It's the thread where the hooks run. One term is better than two.

Reviewer 2: Orchestrator/orchestration threads?

Author: Customization thread?

I wasn't assuming we'd need a thread like this (or use this one) for other systems, but who knows?

                 `globalPreload`; added `load` hook and `getGlobalPreload` hook.
-->

> Stability: 1.1 - Active development

<!-- type=misc -->

<i id="enabling_module_customization_hooks"></i>

### Enabling

Module resolution and loading can be customized by registering a file which
exports a set of hooks. This can be done using the [`register`][] method
imported from `node:module`, which you can run before your application code by
using the `--import` flag:

> ```bash

Author: We seem to use both in our docs, `bash` more so than `console`.

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: Then we have many places that are wrong 🤷‍♂️ In this case correctness is better than consistently wrong, no?

Bash is for a shell file (like `foo.sh`)

Console is for a CLI prompt: https://stackoverflow.com/a/49004070/758177

> ```bash

Reviewer: Well that's `bash`, not `console`. `console` is when you see console output, `bash` is for shell script that you can copy paste to your terminal (or bash script)

> ```bash

Reviewer: From the examples you just gave, wouldn't you agree that `bash` is more suited than `console` here?

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: We _happen_ to not see a difference, but if the CLI snippet changes, it could incorrectly/needlessly break, and the editor may not know why.

I'm not saying "this absolutely must be fixed"; I'm saying it's wrong and easily fixed to avoid easily avoidable problems in future.

> ```bash

Reviewer: We'll have to agree to disagree here, I would feel strongly that `console` is wrong here, the code snippet _is_ a `bash` command. I've spent quite some time on https://github.com/nodejs/node/commit/260092eca316bae6036e52b2cdc73c4c4f8a9da6 to make sure the doc were consistent on that matter.

> ```bash

Author: I’m going to mark this as resolved and you can open a new PR for this, perhaps to make it consistent throughout the codebase and enforced via lint rules. The existing examples used/use `bash` so I’m going to leave it that way for now.

node --import ./register-hooks.js ./my-app.js
```

```mjs
// register-hooks.js
import { register } from 'node:module';

register('./hooks.mjs', import.meta.url);
```

```cjs
// register-hooks.js
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');

register('./hooks.mjs', pathToFileURL(__filename));
```

The file passed to `--import` can also be an export from a dependency:

```bash
node --import some-package/register ./my-app.js
```

Where `some-package` has an [`"exports"`][] field defining the `/register`

> export to map to a file that calls `register()`, like this `register-hooks.js`
> example.

Reviewer 2: nit: "this" is like the example should immediately follow, whereas "the following … example" is more like there "will be an example soon"

```suggestion
export to map to a file that calls `register()`, like the following `register-hooks.js`
example.
```

Using `--import` ensures that the hooks are registered before any application
files are imported, including the entry point of the application. Alternatively,
`register` can be called from the entry point, but dynamic `import()` must be
used for any code that should be run after the hooks are registered:

> ```mjs
> import { register } from 'node:module';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```mjs
// register-hooks.mjs

import { register } from 'node:module';
```

Author: I don’t think the filenames are relevant, we’re not referring to this code block from an example command to be run.

register('http-to-https', import.meta.url);

// Because this is a dynamic `import()`, the `http-to-https` hooks will run
// to handle `./my-app.js` and any other files it imports or requires.
await import('./my-app.js');
```

> ```cjs
> const { register } = require('node:module');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```cjs
// register-hooks.cjs

const { register } = require('node:module');
```

const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');

register('http-to-https', pathToFileURL(__filename));

// Because this is a dynamic `import()`, the `http-to-https` hooks will run
// to handle `./my-app.js` and any other files it imports or requires.
import('./my-app.js');
```

> In this example, we are registering the `http-to-https` hooks, but they will

Reviewer 2: this paragraph is between 2 examples, so the one to which it applies is ambiguous

```suggestion
In the above example, we are registering the `http-to-https` hooks, but they will
```

Author: There was some accessibility guide that said we should use “previous” and “next” instead of “above” and “below”, I forget why. We follow the Microsoft style guide, it’s in there somewhere.

only be available for subsequently imported modules—in this case, `my-app.js`
and anything it references via `import` or `require`. If the

> `import('./my-app.js')` had instead been a static `import './my-app.js'`, _the
> app would already have been loaded_ before the `http-to-https` hooks were

Reviewer 2: less is more :)

```suggestion
`import('./my-app.js')` had instead been a static `import './my-app.js'`, the
app would have _already_ been loaded **before** the `http-to-https` hooks were
```

> registered. This is part of the design of ES modules, where static imports are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
registered. This due to the ES modules specification, where static imports are
```

> evaluated from the leaves of the tree first back to the trunk. There can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
evaluated from the leaves of the tree first, then back to the trunk. There can be
```

static imports _within_ `my-app.js`, which will not be evaluated until
`my-app.js` is when it's dynamically imported.

> The `my-app.js` file can also be CommonJS. Customization hooks will run for any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`my-app.js` can also be CommonJS. Customization hooks will run for any
```

modules that it references via either `import` or `require`.

Finally, if all you want to do is register hooks before your app runs and you
don't want to create a separate file for that purpose, you can pass a `data:`
URL to `--import`:

```bash
node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register("http-to-https", pathToFileURL("./").href);' ./my-app.js
```

### Chaining

It's possible to call `register` more than once:

```mjs
// entrypoint.mjs
import { register } from 'node:module';

> register(new URL('./first.mjs', import.meta.url));
> register('./second.mjs', import.meta.url);

Reviewer 2: Is there any difference here, using `URL()` vs not? I believe no, so without an explanation that they're the same, it's a hanging-chad.

```suggestion
register('./first.mjs', import.meta.url);
register('./second.mjs', import.meta.url);
```

await import('./my-app.mjs');
```

```cjs
// entrypoint.cjs
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');

const parentURL = pathToFileURL(__filename);

> register(new URL('./first.mjs', parentURL));
> register('./second.mjs', parentURL);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
register('./first.mjs', parentURL);
register('./second.mjs', parentURL);
```

import('./my-app.mjs');
```

In this example, the registered hooks will form chains. If both `first.mjs` and
`second.mjs` define a `resolve` hook, both will be called, in the order they
were registered. The same applies to all the other hooks.

### Communication between main and hooks threads

Module customization hooks run on a dedicated thread, separate from the main

> thread that runs application code. This means mutating global variables won't

Reviewer 2: nit

```suggestion
thread runing application code. This means mutating global variables won't
```

Author: I’m ambivalent about this one but I think the old version is better. “Running” implies that something is continuously happening, but in reality there are periods of idleness.

affect the other thread(s), and message channels must be used to communicate
between the threads.

The `register` method can be used to pass data to an [`initialize`][] hook on
the hooks thread. The data passed to the hook may include transferrable objects
like ports.

```mjs
import { register } from 'node:module';
import { MessageChannel } from 'node:worker_threads';

> // This example showcases how a message channel can be used to

Reviewer 2: nit ("showcase" seems a bit much)

```suggestion
// This example demonstrates how a message channel can be used to
```

Author: This example is an extravaganza!

> // communicate to the hooks, by sending `port2` to the hooks.

Reviewer 2: communication is bi-directional ("to" is uni-directional)

```suggestion
// communicate with the hooks, by sending `port2` to the hooks.
```

const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();

port1.on('message', (msg) => {
  console.log(msg);
});

register('./my-hooks.mjs', {
  parentURL: import.meta.url,
  data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
  transferList: [port2],
});
```

```cjs
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');

// This example showcases how a message channel can be used to

> // communicate to the hooks, by sending `port2` to the hooks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// communicate with the hooks, by sending `port2` to the hooks.
```

const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();

port1.on('message', (msg) => {
  console.log(msg);
});

register('./my-hooks.mjs', {
  parentURL: pathToFileURL(__filename),
  data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
  transferList: [port2],
});
```

### Hooks

> The [`register`][] method can be used to register a module that exports a set of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`register`][] method can be used to register a module exporting a set of
```

Author: Same as the similar other example, this reads as less clear to me because “exporting” could be modifying multiple things whereas “that exports” can only refer to “a module.”

```mjs
export async function initialize({ number, port }) {
  // Receive data from `register`, return data to `register`.
}

export async function resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) {
  // Take an `import` or `require` specifier and resolve it to a URL.
}

export async function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
  // Take a resolved URL and return the source code to be evaluated.
}
```

Hooks are part of a chain, even if that chain consists of only one custom
(user-provided) hook and the default hook, which is always present. Hook
functions nest: each one must always return a plain object, and chaining happens
as a result of each function calling `next<hookName>()`, which is a reference to
the subsequent loader's hook.

A hook that returns a value lacking a required property triggers an exception. A
hook that returns without calling `next<hookName>()` _and_ without returning
`shortCircuit: true` also triggers an exception. These errors are to help
prevent unintentional breaks in the chain. Return `shortCircuit: true` from a
hook to signal that the chain is intentionally ending at your hook.

Hooks are run in a separate thread, isolated from the main thread where

> application code runs. That means it is a different [realm][]. The hooks thread

Reviewer 2: The first sentence here is a verbatim copy of the intro sentence of this section. Could we remove it here, move the second sentence ("That means …") up to the intro, and move the third into a callout/caveat?

Author: > The first sentence here is a verbatim copy of the intro sentence of this section.

It is? This used to be the introduction of the section, but it’s farther down now.

Reviewer 2: 😳 I can't find it now. Sorry, I don't know what I was looking at.

Finally, if all you want to do is register hooks before your app runs and you
don't want to create a separate file for that purpose, you can pass a `data:`
URL to `--import`:

```bash
node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; register("http-to-https", import.meta.url);' ./my-app.js
```

### Chaining

It's possible to call `register` more than once:

```mjs
// entrypoint.mjs
import { register } from 'node:module';

register(new URL('./first.mjs', import.meta.url));
register('./second.mjs', import.meta.url);
await import('./my-app.mjs');
```

```cjs
// entrypoint.cjs
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');

const parentURL = pathToFileURL(__filename);
register(new URL('./first.mjs', parentURL));
register('./second.mjs', parentURL);
import('./my-app.mjs');
```

In this example, the registered hooks will form chains. If both `first.mjs` and
`second.mjs` define a `resolve` hook, both will be called, in the order they
were registered. The same applies to all the other hooks.

### Communication between main and hooks threads

Module customization hooks run on a dedicated thread, separate from the main

> thread that runs application code. This means that global variables are unique
> to each thread, and message channels must be used to communicate between the
> threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
thread that runs application code. This means mutating global variables won't affect
the other thread(s), and message channels must be used to communicate between the
threads.
```

// communicate to the hooks, by sending `port2` to the hooks.
const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();

port1.on('message', (msg) => {
  console.log(msg);
});

register('./my-hooks.mjs', {
  parentURL: import.meta.url,
  data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
  transferList: [port2],
});
```

```cjs
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');

// This example showcases how a message channel can be used to
// communicate to the hooks, by sending `port2` to the hooks.
const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();

port1.on('message', (msg) => {
  console.log(msg);
});

register('./my-hooks.mjs', {
  parentURL: pathToFileURL(__filename),
  data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
  transferList: [port2],
});
```

### Hooks

The [`register`][] method can be used to register a module that exports a set of
hooks. The hooks are functions that are called by Node.js to customize the
module resolution and loading process. The exported functions must have specific
names and signatures, and they must be exported as named exports from an ES

> module file.

Reviewer: Should we start to deprecate using CJS on this loader thread? Currently exporting from a CJS module works just fine.

Author: We’ve never documented that hooks files could be CommonJS, so I think there’s nothing to deprecate? I’d rather not document it now because then it becomes a feature we need to continue to support (or deprecate) whereas in the current state we can remove that ability in the future (or more likely, inadvertently break that ability) and we haven’t created a bug.

Either way, I think this is a question beyond the scope of this PR. If we’re going to document this support then we should also add a test for it, which feels like a separate PR from this one.

Reviewer: I think it's a different thing to have omissions in the docs (e.g. not mentioning that a CJS loader module works), and to have factually incorrect documentation (they must NOT be exported from an ES module file, it can be a CJS module, or a `data:`-URL module, or even HTTP with the ad-hoc flag). I suggest remove the last part of the sentence.
```suggestion
names and signatures, and they must be exported as named exports.
```

  [`port.postMessage`][]),
* a `Promise` resolving to one of the aforementioned values.

> Hooks code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Module customization code:
```

  [`port.postMessage`][]),
* a `Promise` resolving to one of the aforementioned values.

Module customization code:

```mjs

> // In the below example this file is referenced as `/path-to-my-hooks.js`.

Reviewer 2: KISS

```suggestion
// path-to-my-hooks.js
```

assert.strictEqual(result, 'ok');
```

```cjs
const assert = require('node:assert');
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');

// This example showcases how a message channel can be used to communicate
// between the main (application) thread and the hooks running on the hooks
// thread, by sending `port2` to the `initialize` hook.
const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();

port1.on('message', (msg) => {
  assert.strictEqual(msg, 'increment: 2');
});

const result = register('./path-to-my-hooks.js', {
  parentURL: pathToFileURL(__filename),
  data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
  transferList: [port2],
});

> assert.strictEqual(result, 'ok');

Reviewer: I'm not sure we want to keep documenting that, it's not unlikely that we will get rid of this, or at least that it's going to change shape. I guess it's fine to keep it until we actually change it, but folks hould not rely on it.

Author: Yeah I don't know, I didn't change the example (just added the cjs version). Do you have a suggestion?

Reviewer 2: I think the `'ok'`s are also a little confusing because some assertion libs have things like "expect().to.be.ok".

I would remove `initialize`'s return, and remove this assert.

Author: My goals in this PR were just to implement the [to-do list](https://github.com/nodejs/loaders/issues/154#issuecomment-1678068573); I’m fine with making additional improvements, but I don’t want this PR to drag on for days or weeks because we’re reopening _all_ the text on this page. My PR didn’t change this example; if you want to suggest an improvement, fine, I’ll probably accept it; but otherwise, I think improving this example (and other examples that I haven’t changed) can follow in a new PR.

Reviewer 2: Ah, sorry, all I see is red and green.

assert.strictEqual(result, 'ok');
```

```cjs
const assert = require('node:assert');
const { register } = require('node:module');
const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');

// This example showcases how a message channel can be used to communicate
// between the main (application) thread and the hooks running on the hooks
// thread, by sending `port2` to the `initialize` hook.
const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();

port1.on('message', (msg) => {
  assert.strictEqual(msg, 'increment: 2');
});

> const result = register('/path-to-my-hooks.js', {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const result = register('./path-to-my-hooks.js', {
```

    terminate the chain of `resolve` hooks. **Default:** `false`
  * `url` {string} The absolute URL to which this input resolves

> **Warning** Despite support for returning promises and async functions, calls
> to `resolve` may block the main thread which can impact performance.

The `resolve` hook chain is responsible for telling Node.js where to find and
how to cache a given `import` statement or expression, or `require` call. It can
optionally return a format (such as `'module'`) as a hint to the `load` hook. If
a format is specified, the `load` hook is ultimately responsible for providing
the final `format` value (and it is free to ignore the hint provided by
`resolve`); if `resolve` provides a `format`, a custom `load` hook is required

> even if only to pass the value to the Node.js default `load` hook.

Reviewer: While we're editing this, we should consider rephrase that, I don't understand what it means.

The value of `source` is ignored for type `'builtin'` because currently it is
not possible to replace the value of a Node.js builtin (core) module.

> The value of `source` can be omitted for type `'commonjs'`:

Reviewer 2: This sentence is confusing. It seems like it's about to explain the effects of omitting `source`, but it goes on to explain omitting vs not omitting.

```suggestion
Omitting vs providing a `source` for `'commonjs'` has very different effects:
```

> * When a `source` is provided, all `require` calls from this module will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When provided, all `require` calls from this module will be
```

Author: I think it’s clearer before, that “provided” refers to `source` and not “all `require` calls”.

  processed by the ESM loader with registered `resolve` and `load` hooks; all
  `require.resolve` calls from this module will be processed by the ESM loader
  with registered `resolve` hooks; only a subset of the CommonJS API will be
  available (e.g. no `require.extensions`, no `require.cache`, no
  `require.resolve.paths`) and monkey-patching on the CommonJS module loader
  will not apply.

> * If `source` is undefined or `null`, it will be handled by the CommonJS module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When omitted (`source`'s value is undefined or `null`), it will be handled by the CommonJS module
```

Reviewer 2: nit: I would move this case first because

* this was the previous behaviour
* alphabetical order (o…p)

Author: Perhaps, but the omitting behavior is weird and shouldn’t be encouraged. Generally we want hooks to support CommonJS, so we should put the behavior we want first to imply that it’s the default.

loader with registered `resolve` and `load` hooks; all `require.resolve` calls
from this module will be processed by the ESM loader with registered `resolve`
hooks; `require.extensions` and monkey-patching on the CommonJS module loader
will not apply. (In other words, handled `require` calls will behave similarly

> to an `import` of a CommonJS module.) If `source` is undefined or `null`, it

Reviewer: > handled `require` calls will behave similarly to an `import` of a CommonJS module

Well not exactly, one is async, the other one is sync, that's quite a difference.

from this module will be processed by the ESM loader with registered `resolve`
hooks; `require.extensions` and monkey-patching on the CommonJS module loader
will not apply. (In other words, handled `require` calls will behave similarly

> to an `import` of a CommonJS module, other than `require` being sync.) If

Author: No, the period goes inside the parentheses when the entire sentence is inside. The period would be outside only if the parenthetical were part of the sentence. https://blog.apastyle.org/apastyle/2013/03/punctuation-junction-periods-and-parentheses.html (see number 2).

> to an `import` of a CommonJS module, other than `require` being sync.) If

Reviewer: Wdyt about removing those parentheses?

> to an `import` of a CommonJS module, other than `require` being sync.) If

Author: I guess that’s fine. If we do that we should maybe add a paragraph break after it, because it doesn’t really flow with the rest of the paragraph. It’s an aside:

> (In other words, handled `require` calls will behave similarly to an `import` of a CommonJS module, other than `require` being sync.)

> to an `import` of a CommonJS module, other than `require` being sync.) If

Author: Want to suggest a specific change?

```

With the preceding hooks module, running

> `node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register(pathToFileURL("./https-hooks.mjs").href);' ./main.mjs`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register(pathToFileURL("./https-hooks.mjs"));' ./main.mjs`
```

```

With the preceding hooks module, running

> `node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register(pathToFileURL("./coffeescript-hooks.mjs").href);' ./main.coffee`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register(pathToFileURL("./coffeescript-hooks.mjs"));' ./main.coffee`
```

console.log('some module!');
```

> Running `node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register(pathToFileURL("./import-map-hooks.js").href);' ./import-map-loader.js main.js`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running `node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register(pathToFileURL("./import-map-hooks.js"));' main.js`
```
